CORS stands for a cross origin resource sharing.
Now the idea beyond CORS is simple,
you have some applications, some web site running on yourpage.com,
for example our find a place application where we see something on the screen and pick a location
and then we have another server,
for example our backend with these two routes we added, othersite.com which you want to talk to from
your first page.
So we get these two applications, maybe we build both of them but they're running on different servers
as it is the case for us,
one is running on localhost:3000, the other on localhost:8080 and these are technically two
different servers.
Now we might want to exchange some resources, that could be a script which we want to fetch from the
other side,
we can send a request and get it but it could also be a request which we want to send to the other
side. And now by default, browsers block such cross origin requests, only requests to the same origin, so
to the same domain, are allowed,
so on yourpage.com, we could only communicate with any routes that are registered on the same server,
not on a different server.
Now this exists for a good reason because by default, you of course want to protect resources,
you shouldn't be able to fetch any data from any server but in the modern web, where this setup of having
standalone API servers is quite common,
you of course want to be able to eject from this default,
you want to tell the browser that this access is OK. So in our example here, on the backend, so on the
Node.js server and always on the backend when you have CORS issues, we have to set some extra headers
that signal to the browser that this is fine, that this access is fine, that we're allowing this access
from this other page,
so we want to grant access to our post route and our get route
for example and we do so by going to app.js and by adding some extra headers. We can add these
headers here before we reach our routes where we do send the response, simply with a middleware function
here where we get the request, get the response and get this next function and there on the response,
we want to add a couple of headers. The headers we need to add there are access-control-allow-origin,
the value for that can be a star or the URL from what you want to allow access,
so we could also specify localhost:3000 there but I'll add a star which means any other server
can send me a request.
We also should add another header here, allow methods, here we can restrict the HTTP methods we
want to support and since I only have post and get routes which I want to expose to the public, we can
write post, get here,
so if you send me a put request you would still not be allowed access but these two methods are allowed
and you can also add other headers to restrict the usage of your API, of your backend server here. Attached
you find a link where you can learn more about CORS and which headers you can set there,
these two are all the headers we need however. We thereafter should call next here so that the request
is able to continue to our routes and with that we can save this and restart our backend server.
Now back to the application,
let's try this again.
You don't even need to reload this page,
we can just clear the error here to see if we get a new one, click find place again and still fail. The reason
for that can be really tricky to understand but for post requests, browsers actually also send another
request first
where they try to find out whether the post request is allowed.
You can see this in the network tab actually,
here this add location request has a method of options.
We never send an options request here in our code but the browser does this automatically for some HTTP
methods, for example for post requests.
So on the server side, we need to allow options requests as well by simply adding this to the allowed
methods and now actually one more thing we should also do is add one extra header here and that's the
access-control-allow-headers option where we defined which headers the client might
send to us, which special headers and there
I want to allow the content type header because we're setting this in the client side code as well.
And now with that, we can restart the server,
clear our errors here on the client, click find place again
and now it works and we get back our success response there.
So this is now how we can send a post request from a different server, from our client side server
which has this static application, which has some client side Javascript running on it to our Node.js
backend application which also uses Javascript but in the Node.js context and which now communicates
as REST API with this client side project and that's quite a typical setup actually.